README.md, before:

# ExiftoolContext

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/exiftool-context.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/exiftool-context)

`exiftool-contex` is a context for `zoroaster` which allows to create
`ExiftoolProcess`, open it, create temp jpeg and data file, and make
sure they are removed, and `exiftool` is closed in the `_destroy` method.
Full API description see below.

## Install

`npm i --save-dev exiftool-context`

## How to use

Just specify `ExiftoolContext` as your test suite `context`.

```js
const ExiftoolContext = require('exiftool-context')

const myModuleTestSuite = {
    context: ExiftoolContext,
    'should have correct metadata': (ctx) => {
        const ep = ctx.create()
        return ep.open().then(() => {
            // Context has a number of JPEG pictures with some metadata.
            return ep.readMetadata(ctx.jpegFile)
        })
        .then((res) => {
            const file = res.data[0]
            return ctx.assertJpegMetadata(file)
        })
    },
}

module.exports = myModuleTestSuite
```

`zoroaster example/myModuleTestSuite`

```fs
example
   myModuleTestSuite.js
    ✓  should have correct metadata

Executed 1 tests.
```

## API

Fixtures are found in `./etc` directory. These functions and properties are available:

### jpegFile

`CANON/IMG_9858.JPG`

### jpegFile2

`CANON/IMG_9859.JPG`

### tempFile

You need to call `ctx.createTempFile` first, after which this will be set to a temp
jpeg file, into which you can write some metadata.

### dataFile

You need to call `ctx.createDataFile` first, after which this will be set to a data
file which can be used to open exiftool with and write commands to.

### defaultBin

Returns `exiftool`.

### static replaceSlashes()

`exiftool` will print "File not found: test/fixtures/no_such_file.jpg" in case of error,
even on windows. use this function to replace slashes on your platform.

### fileDoesNotExist

`no_such_file.jpg`

### fileDoesNotExist2

`no_such_file2.jpg`

### folder

`CANON`

### emptyFolder

`empty`

### filenameWithEncoding

Return a fixture file with utf-encoded filename.

> `./etc/fixtures/Fọto.jpg`

Here's some some additional info about Mac, git and unicode which can help in
times of trouble.

[Git and the Umlaut problem on Mac OS X](https://stackoverflow.com/a/5582439/1267201)

[Encode to unicode](https://mothereff.in/js-escapes)

Filename that we test against is:
`\u0046\u1ECD\u0074\u006F\u002E\u006A\u0070\u0067`

`Fọto.jpg`: F\u1ECDto.jpg ([Yoruba language](https://translate.google.com/#en/yo/photo)) (NFC)

`Fọto.jpg`: Fo\u0323to.jpg - apparently another way to represent it (NFD)

Although the actual file may be in the wanted form, if there are other
files in the repo (probably preceding the test one) which are in another
form, git will use their format for other files (a guess but when it was
the case, the test was failing).

```js
// snippet to check filenames in unicode

const basename = path.basename(ctx.filenameWithEncoding)
const dir = path.dirname(ctx.filenameWithEncoding)

console.log('File to read: %s', ctx.filenameWithEncoding)
console.log('Filename in unicode to read: %s', ctx.toUnicode(basename))
const res = fs.readdirSync(dir)
console.log('Files in fixtures:')
res.map(n => ` ${n}: ${ctx.toUnicode(n)}`).forEach(n => console.log(n))
```

### assertJpegMetadata

A function which has hard-coded metadata in it to assert against fixtures metadata.

### ep

An `ExiftoolProcess` instance. it is not set at first, call `ctx.create()` before accessing.

### create(bin)

```js
this._ep = new exiftool.ExiftoolProcess() // use dist-exiftool binary
this._ep = new exiftool.ExiftoolProcess(bin) // use specific binary
return this // allow chaining
```

Create a new instance with a given bin, and assign it to self.

### open(options)

```js
if (this.ep) {
    return this.ep.open(options)
}
throw new Error('ep has not been created')
```

Open `exiftool`.

### createOpen(bin, options)

```js
this.create(bin).open(options)
```

Create an instance and open it.

### close()

```js
this.ep.close()
```

Close instance

### readMetadata()

```js
ep.readMetadata()
```

Read metadata of a file

### writeMetadata()

```js
ep.writeMetadata()
```

Write metadata to a file

### initAndReadMetadata()

```js
ep.open.readMetadata()
```

Open ExiftoolProcess and read metadata

### initAndWriteMetadata()

```js
ep.open.writeMetadata()
```

Open ExiftoolProcess and write metadata

### createTempFile()

Create a new temp file for testing. Currently clones a jpeg fixture.

### createDataFile()

Create a data file which can be used to open `exiftool`

### writeToDataFile(data)

Write some data to the data file.

### destroy()

Perform the following:

* unlinkTempFile(this.dataFile)
* unlinkTempFile(this.tempFile)

That is, make sure that tests do not have open processes after them, or temp files.

### toUnicode

Convert a string to unicode
([author](http://buildingonmud.blogspot.ru/2009/06/convert-string-to-unicode-in-javascript.html)).

```js
// http://buildingonmud.blogspot.ru/2009/06/convert-string-to-unicode-in-javascript.html
function toUnicode(theString) {
    let unicodeString = ''
    for (var i=0; i < theString.length; i++) {
        let theUnicode = theString.charCodeAt(i).toString(16).toUpperCase()
        while (theUnicode.length < 4) {
            theUnicode = '0' + theUnicode
        }
        theUnicode = '\\u' + theUnicode
        unicodeString += theUnicode
    }
    return unicodeString
}
```

## MockSpawn

Because `node-exiftool` will be spawned with `child_process.spawn`, when
testing, we will mock the `spawn` method. To do that, use `ctx.mockSpawn()`, and
access the process's mock with `ctx.proc`. The _process_ is an EventEmitter, and
will emit `close` event when its `stdin` is written with `-stay_open\nfalse\n`.

```js
ctx.mockSpawn()
const bin = 'echo'
const args = ['hello', 'world']
const options = {
    cwd: HOME,
}
const proc = cp.spawn(bin, args, options)

assert.equal(ctx.proc, proc)
assert.equal(ctx.proc.args, { bin, args, options })
```

When args passed to `cp.spawn` include `-stay_open True`, it will automatically
push mocked date to the process's `stderr`, simulating an opening echo.

### pushStderr(data: any)

Push some data to `stderr` readable stream.

### pushStdout(data: any)

Push some data to `stdout` readable stream.

### stdinData => {{chunk: Buffer, encoding: string}}[]

An array with all data written to `stdin`.

### args => {{bin: string, args: string[], options: object}}

Arguments passed when calling `child_process.spawn` command.

## What is a Test Context

A test context is an object which is available to tests via `ctx` argument. This is
implemented in `zoroaster` test runner. It allows to abstract individual test contexts.
That makes maintanence of test files easier when they don't have to rely on global scope
of each other. You can create unique and specific tests contexts to be used in testing
of your application. Save time by reusing the code, and using tests as a tool, and not
the other way around.

To learn more about the idea of test contexts, read [zoroaster documentation](https://zoroaster.co.uk/test-context).

---

(c) [Zoroaster](https://zoroaster.co.uk) 2017

Commit message:

add note about publishing from linux

README.md, after:

# ExiftoolContext

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/exiftool-context.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/exiftool-context)

`exiftool-contex` is a context for `zoroaster` which allows to create
`ExiftoolProcess`, open it, create temp jpeg and data file, and make
sure they are removed, and `exiftool` is closed in the `_destroy` method.
Full API description see below.

## Install

`npm i --save-dev exiftool-context`

## Publish

This package has to be published from a Linux, and not a Mac, because it
contains a filename with unicode encoding, which will be published in a
different form (see [below](#filenameWithEncoding))

## How to use

Just specify `ExiftoolContext` as your test suite `context`.

```js
const ExiftoolContext = require('exiftool-context')

const myModuleTestSuite = {
    context: ExiftoolContext,
    'should have correct metadata': (ctx) => {
        const ep = ctx.create()
        return ep.open().then(() => {
            // Context has a number of JPEG pictures with some metadata.
            return ep.readMetadata(ctx.jpegFile)
        })
        .then((res) => {
            const file = res.data[0]
            return ctx.assertJpegMetadata(file)
        })
    },
}

module.exports = myModuleTestSuite
```

`zoroaster example/myModuleTestSuite`

```fs
example
   myModuleTestSuite.js
    ✓  should have correct metadata

Executed 1 tests.
```

## API

Fixtures are found in `./etc` directory. These functions and properties are available:

### jpegFile

`CANON/IMG_9858.JPG`

### jpegFile2

`CANON/IMG_9859.JPG`

### tempFile

You need to call `ctx.createTempFile` first, after which this will be set to a temp
jpeg file, into which you can write some metadata.

### dataFile

You need to call `ctx.createDataFile` first, after which this will be set to a data
file which can be used to open exiftool with and write commands to.

### defaultBin

Returns `exiftool`.

### static replaceSlashes()

`exiftool` will print "File not found: test/fixtures/no_such_file.jpg" in case of error,
even on windows. use this function to replace slashes on your platform.

### fileDoesNotExist

`no_such_file.jpg`

### fileDoesNotExist2

`no_such_file2.jpg`

### folder

`CANON`

### emptyFolder

`empty`

### filenameWithEncoding

Return a fixture file with utf-encoded filename.

> `./etc/fixtures/Fọto.jpg`

Here's some some additional info about Mac, git and unicode which can help in
times of trouble.

[Git and the Umlaut problem on Mac OS X](https://stackoverflow.com/a/5582439/1267201)

[Encode to unicode](https://mothereff.in/js-escapes)

Filename that we test against is:
`\u0046\u1ECD\u0074\u006F\u002E\u006A\u0070\u0067`

`Fọto.jpg`: F\u1ECDto.jpg ([Yoruba language](https://translate.google.com/#en/yo/photo)) (NFC)

`Fọto.jpg`: Fo\u0323to.jpg - apparently another way to represent it (NFD)

Although the actual file may be in the wanted form, if there are other
files in the repo (probably preceding the test one) which are in another
form, git will use their format for other files (a guess but when it was
the case, the test was failing).

```js
// snippet to check filenames in unicode

const basename = path.basename(ctx.filenameWithEncoding)
const dir = path.dirname(ctx.filenameWithEncoding)

console.log('File to read: %s', ctx.filenameWithEncoding)
console.log('Filename in unicode to read: %s', ctx.toUnicode(basename))
const res = fs.readdirSync(dir)
console.log('Files in fixtures:')
res.map(n => ` ${n}: ${ctx.toUnicode(n)}`).forEach(n => console.log(n))
```

### assertJpegMetadata

A function which has hard-coded metadata in it to assert against fixtures metadata.

### ep

An `ExiftoolProcess` instance. it is not set at first, call `ctx.create()` before accessing.

### create(bin)

```js
this._ep = new exiftool.ExiftoolProcess() // use dist-exiftool binary
this._ep = new exiftool.ExiftoolProcess(bin) // use specific binary
return this // allow chaining
```

Create a new instance with a given bin, and assign it to self.

### open(options)

```js
if (this.ep) {
    return this.ep.open(options)
}
throw new Error('ep has not been created')
```

Open `exiftool`.

### createOpen(bin, options)

```js
this.create(bin).open(options)
```

Create an instance and open it.

### close()

```js
this.ep.close()
```

Close instance

### readMetadata()

```js
ep.readMetadata()
```

Read metadata of a file

### writeMetadata()

```js
ep.writeMetadata()
```

Write metadata to a file

### initAndReadMetadata()

```js
ep.open.readMetadata()
```

Open ExiftoolProcess and read metadata

### initAndWriteMetadata()

```js
ep.open.writeMetadata()
```

Open ExiftoolProcess and write metadata

### createTempFile()

Create a new temp file for testing. Currently clones a jpeg fixture.

### createDataFile()

Create a data file which can be used to open `exiftool`

### writeToDataFile(data)

Write some data to the data file.

### destroy()

Perform the following:

* unlinkTempFile(this.dataFile)
* unlinkTempFile(this.tempFile)

That is, make sure that tests do not have open processes after them, or temp files.

### toUnicode

Convert a string to unicode
([author](http://buildingonmud.blogspot.ru/2009/06/convert-string-to-unicode-in-javascript.html)).

```js
// http://buildingonmud.blogspot.ru/2009/06/convert-string-to-unicode-in-javascript.html
function toUnicode(theString) {
    let unicodeString = ''
    for (var i=0; i < theString.length; i++) {
        let theUnicode = theString.charCodeAt(i).toString(16).toUpperCase()
        while (theUnicode.length < 4) {
            theUnicode = '0' + theUnicode
        }
        theUnicode = '\\u' + theUnicode
        unicodeString += theUnicode
    }
    return unicodeString
}
```

## MockSpawn

Because `node-exiftool` will be spawned with `child_process.spawn`, when
testing, we will mock the `spawn` method. To do that, use `ctx.mockSpawn()`, and
access the process's mock with `ctx.proc`. The _process_ is an EventEmitter, and
will emit `close` event when its `stdin` is written with `-stay_open\nfalse\n`.

```js
ctx.mockSpawn()
const bin = 'echo'
const args = ['hello', 'world']
const options = {
    cwd: HOME,
}
const proc = cp.spawn(bin, args, options)

assert.equal(ctx.proc, proc)
assert.equal(ctx.proc.args, { bin, args, options })
```

When args passed to `cp.spawn` include `-stay_open True`, it will automatically
push mocked date to the process's `stderr`, simulating an opening echo.

### pushStderr(data: any)

Push some data to `stderr` readable stream.

### pushStdout(data: any)

Push some data to `stdout` readable stream.

### stdinData => {{chunk: Buffer, encoding: string}}[]

An array with all data written to `stdin`.

### args => {{bin: string, args: string[], options: object}}

Arguments passed when calling `child_process.spawn` command.

## What is a Test Context

A test context is an object which is available to tests via `ctx` argument. This is
implemented in `zoroaster` test runner. It allows to abstract individual test contexts.
That makes maintanence of test files easier when they don't have to rely on global scope
of each other. You can create unique and specific tests contexts to be used in testing
of your application. Save time by reusing the code, and using tests as a tool, and not
the other way around.

To learn more about the idea of test contexts, read [zoroaster documentation](https://zoroaster.co.uk/test-context).

---

(c) [Zoroaster](https://zoroaster.co.uk) 2017
